### Conceptual Exercise

Answer the following questions below:

- What is PostgreSQL?

  - An open source Object Relational Database Management System (ORDMS) that uses and extends the SQL language.

  - source: https://cloud.google.com/learn/postgresql-vs-sql

- What is the difference between SQL and PostgreSQL?

  - SQL:

    - relational database management system
    - commercial product from Microsoft
    - runs only on Microsoft or Linux
    - mainly used for organizations that depend on Microsoft product

  - PosgreSQL:

    - relational database management system
    - open source (free)
    - runs on most operating systems
    - supports relational (SQL) and non-relational (JSON)

  - source: https://cloud.google.com/learn/postgresql-vs-sql

- In `psql`, how do you connect to a database?

  - "\l" to see a list of all databases
  - "\c <your_database_name>" to connect to that database

- What is the difference between `HAVING` and `WHERE`?

  - 'HAVING' decides which group(s), if grouped, to keep
  - 'WHERE' filrers which rows get included. It also is read before 'HAVING'
  - source: https://lessons.springboard.com/SQL-Querying-f4820c6aa4894ad2bb9159ada6176956#abb8e70146794eacb6336583acbbb8d2

- What is the difference between an `INNER` and `OUTER` join?

  - 'INNER JOIN' combines data only in the rows that match the condition in both tables
  - 'OUTER JOIN' has three types of joins

    - LEFT: all of the rows from the first table (left), combined with matching rows from the second table (right)
    - RIGHT: the matching rows from the first table (left), combined with all the rows from the second table (right)
    - FULL: all the rows from both tables (left and right)

  - source: https://lessons.springboard.com/Relationships-in-SQL-844ac9a964d745ec9a507cd1cb4279e5

- What is the difference between a `LEFT OUTER` and `RIGHT OUTER` join?

  - LEFT: all of the rows from the first table (left), combined with matching rows from the second table (right)
  - RIGHT: the matching rows from the first table (left), combined with all the rows from the second table (right)

- What is an ORM? What do they do?

  - Object Relational Mapping: technique for converting data between a relational database and a heap of an object-oriented programming language. Creates a virtual database.
  - source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object%E2%80%93relational_database#Comparison_to_RDBMS

- What are some differences between making HTTP requests using AJAX
  and from the server side using a library like `requests`?

  - AJAX is a technique in Javascript for sending requests and receiving responses from a server without having to reload the browser page. A non-AJAX request will have the server return a new HTML page.
  - source: https://lessons.springboard.com/AJAX-c816a35f60c24753b3b3b5bdb4e8c6bb

- What is CSRF? What is the purpose of the CSRF token?

  - Cross-Site Request Forgery: most sites use a CSRF token that:
    - is generated by the server when a form is shown
    - is included in the HTML of the form
    - is checked by the server on form submission
    - makes sure request is coming from the correct form
  - source: https://lessons.springboard.com/WTForms-f299c60a8f1d43dd88e4deae38a0093b

- What is the purpose of `form.hidden_tag()`?

  - ignores hidden field (CSRF token) so it is not rendered in the page
